So now that we had a look at functions inside of functions, which is quite interesting,
let me come back to that add event listener thing, there
I'm passing a function as an argument, an anonymous function which I create here in place as I explained.
Now, I already mentioned it at the beginning of this module,
what we're effectively doing here therefore is we're passing a pointer at a function to another function.
So this function here is effectively a parameter or a value for a parameter of the add event listener
function
and that's a pattern you will see in Javascript a lot,
you can also build for your own functions but especially built-in functions will often have
this behavior where you need to provide them with a function, typically all built-in functions that do
something which is event based or which takes a bit longer because this is a pattern called a callback
function. In the end what you you're doing here is you're creating a function, either in place with this
anonymous function or you store that in in a constant before, doesn't matter and you're just passing a
pointer at the function to add event listener,
that's what you already learned.
Now you never call the function yourself, right, the browser,
so the thing behind add event listener in the end, calls it for you when that click event in this case
occurs.
Now this is called a callback function therefore because it's called for you by something else, you
can't control when exactly it's called,
it's just coming back at you, it's called for you at some point in the future and therefore this, for example
for events, is the core pattern because you can't execute the function on your own, you don't know when
the click occurs, you just want to give the browser the function or a pointer at a function to execute
for you.
That's why in this case you pass a function as a value for an argument to another function because
the browser needs that function to do its job, I
hope that makes sense.
Now you can also build your own function that takes a function as an argument. Let's say the sum up
function here should actually not to return the sum here but instead it should execute a function which
we pass to it which then gets the sum as an argument.
So I'll replace a and b here with a new parameter and you can name it however you want,
you'll often see names like cb for callback but you can name it however you want,
so I'll name it result handler to make it really clear that this is kind of a function which will do
something with the result of this calculation.
So here once we're done, instead of returning, I'll use this result handler parameter and since it will
be a function or a pointer at a function, I can execute it as a function by adding parentheses, right?
Hope that makes sense,
it will be a function so I can execute it as such.
Now we'll pass sum to that function,
it's now our job to make sure that when we call sum up, we do provide this function. So for this, I'll
actually create yet another new function here, show result
or however you want to call it, with any of the three ways of building a function you want,
again that does not matter here,
I'm missing a semicolon here by the way
now that I saw it.
So show result like this
and there I want to use the alert function to show the result, the result after adding all numbers is
and then simply show the sum here
for the result.
So I expect to get the result here in this show result
function as an argument and therefore I can use it here and I can expect that I get it as an argument
here because this will be the function which I pass to sum up in the end as a first argument and
therefore, that will be what is used as a result handler, that will be called and an argument will be
passed to it.
So sum which is passed to result handler here will in the end be the argument I receive here in show
result because show result is now what I pass to sum up as a first argument, of course without parentheses
just as we did it for add event listener because I don't want to execute it here, I want to give sum up
the chance of executing it for me. So I pass show result here to both sum up and to the other sum up
call, not to subtract up because there we don't support this yet but pass it to sum up, like this as a
first argument.
Therefore in sum up, this is received here on this result handler parameter,
so this is now a pointer at a function, therefore we execute it here and we pass sum to it
and since the function that will be executed is this function, sum will in the end be the value for
result here and will show up in our alert,
that's the theory at least.
Let's give this a try and let's reload this page and indeed I get an alert with 19 and 142
and I get undefined here because I still console log the result. Now since sum up doesn't return
anything anymore,
this won't work so we should get rid of that and instead, take advantage of our show result function
which we now pass.
So this is a callback function and how we can build it on our own.
Now again, this is how you can build it on your own, often or in a lot of cases, you won't need to build
it on your own because of course here, there's nothing wrong with just returning the sum here and then
using it in the place where you called sum up but throughout your career as a web developer, as a Javascript
developer, you will also encounter cases where you want to write functions which actually take such a
callback function and then do something with it and a lot of the built-in functions in Javascript support
this pattern, especially all the event listeners and so on,
so everything that's related to actions which occur in an unpredictable way or which take very long and
therefore here it's nice to know what's happening behind the scenes
when you use these internal functions like add event listener, right,
because that's exactly the pattern we use there.
There, I'm passing in an anonymous function but as you learned, that's essentially the same as pointing
at a named function like this.